We present Distilled Feature Fields Enable
Few-Shot Language-Guided Manipulation.
In this project, we consider a few-shot
imitation learning scenario, where a robot
has been given a few demonstrations
of how to grasp and place objects.
Given this small set of demonstrations, we want to
enable the robot to generalize to an open set of
objects that come in different shapes and poses
and sometimes from different object categories.
Our key idea is to leverage foundation
models trained on internet-scale datasets,
which embed common-sense understanding
of the world from two-dimensional images.
We combine these foundation models
with neural radiance fields, or NeRFs,
to lift these two-dimensional features into 3D.
We call this general approach feature fields
for robotic manipulation, or F3RM. F3RM
contains the following three components.
The first component is a way to produce 3D
feature fields from 2D foundation models in a
robotic manipulation setting. The second component
is a way to accomplish few-shot manipulation.
The third component is adding natural language
for open-text, language-guided manipulation.
We will start with our automated system for
making 3D feature fields in a robotic setup.
The first step is for the robot to scan
the scene using a camera mounted at the
end of the selfie stick. The robot collects 50
color images of the scene at different poses,
which can be used to build a neural
radiance field at a high level of detail.
In our setup, however, besides the color
pixel values, our neural fields also
reconstruct two-dimensional visual features from
vision foundation models such as DINO or CLIP.
Take this scene, for example, where we produce
a three-dimensional DINO field using the same
differentiable volume rendering pipeline as NeRF.
The color in this rendering corresponds to the
principal components of the DINO features. Notice
both the semantic boundaries between objects and
the geometric details. How are we going to
use feature fields for robotic manipulation?
Many manipulation tasks may be formulated as
learning to predict 6 degrees of freedom poses.
We can represent a demonstration of this type by
the local context in the 3D feature field. To do
so, we first sample a set of query points in the
canonical frame of the gripper. Now take grasping
this red mug by the handle, for example. We sample
features in the feature field at the query points
and concatenate them to get a local geometric
and semantic representation of the demonstration.
Now at test time, the robot is given a novel scene
that contains objects that have not seen before.
The robot scans the scene and then
performs optimization to find the
grasp that maximizes its similarity
to the small number of demonstrations.
By optimizing for a grasp over the entire scene,
we get the grasps for the pink mug shown on the
right. We then use motion planning to find
and execute a feasible grasp on the robot.
How can we enable language-guided manipulation
using feature fields distilled from CLIP,
a vision language model? We designate novel
objects to manipulate via natural language.
Consider the user asking the robot to pick up
the bowl. Our pipeline consists of two stages.
In the first stage, we use language to
retrieve the relevant demonstrations.
We extract the text features for the user query
from CLIP and compute the similarity between these
text features and the mean query point features in
a demonstration. We repeat this computation over a
set of demonstrations and select the one that has
the highest similarity to the embedded text query.
For grasping the bowl, this process selects the
demonstration for grasping a mug by its lip.
In the second stage, we perform language-guided
pose optimization. We search for a grasp that
maximizes the similarity between a weighting
of the text features for the language query
and the demonstrations retrieved from the
first stage. This allows us to focus both on
the object the user specifies and the local
geometric features important for grasping.
We optimize over the entire scene and
successfully find six DoF grasps for the bowl.
Observe that language guidance allows us to ignore
the mugs that are also present in the scene.
Let's now look at some results on the real robot.
We first set up a scene with objects collected
around the lab in a variety of six DoF poses.
Note that the robot has never seen these
exact objects in the demonstrations.
The robot then picks up a camera mounted on the
selfie stick and scans a series of RGB images.
We then train the NeRF and distill CLIP
features. Here we show a visualization
of the NeRF along with the principal
components of the CLIP feature field.
We now use language to designate
novel objects to manipulate.
We first ask the robot to pick up "Baymax",
an out of distribution object category.
We show the language similarity heatmap
of "Baymax" over the CLIP feature field.
We successfully infer a grasp and execute it on
the robot. Note that the closest demonstration
was grasping a caterpillar toy by its ear.
Language also enables us to specify objects
by their color. In this scene there's both a blue
and a red screwdriver. We reuse the CLIP feature
field to sequentially execute grasps and show the
similarity heatmap. Language guidance guides the
optimization towards the "blue screwdriver"
which we are able to successfully grasp.
We show the execution for the "bowl" presented
earlier, an out of distribution object category.
We match the language query to the demonstration
of grasping a mug by its lip and successfully
infer a stable 6-DOF grasp and execute it on
the robot. We now demonstrate that the robot
is able to handle the "red screwdriver"
in addition to the "blue screwdriver".
The vision language features from CLIP allow
us to distinguish the red screwdriver from
the blue one and predict a successful grasp
to place the screwdriver into the container.
Finally, language enables us to
specify objects by their material
properties. In this scene there's
both a transparent and a metal jug.
We successfully predict a grasp on the transparent
jug using language guided pose optimization and
execute it on the robot. To summarize,
we designate novel objects to manipulate
via language. We achieve this using only 10
demonstrations across 4 object categories.
We showcase the ability to generalize to
out of distribution object categories,
as well as specifying objects by
their color and material properties.
Thank you for watching and
please check out our website
for the paper and additional experimental results.